README.md, before:

# imgw pipeline

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dp997/imgw-pipeline)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dp997/imgw-pipeline)
[![Build status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dp997/imgw-pipeline/main.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/dp997/imgw-pipeline/actions/workflows/main.yml?query=branch%3Amain)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/dp997/imgw-pipeline/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/dp997/imgw-pipeline)
[![Commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/dp997/imgw-pipeline)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/dp997/imgw-pipeline)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dp997/imgw-pipeline)](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dp997/imgw-pipeline)

## Prerequisites
Project is managed with uv, so you should probably [install](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/) it.

Clone the repository with git and go into project directory:
```
git clone https://github.com/dp997/imgw
cd imgw
```

Synchronize the environment:
```uv sync --freeze```

## 1. Configuring the pipeline
The pipeline is managed with dlt (optionally dagster). The `.dlt` directory contains `config.toml` with some sane defaults for pipeline to run.
If you want to store pipeline results somewhere outside of local duckdb instance, you should configure dlt secrets:
1. In a `.dlt/secrets.toml` file:
```
[destination.datalake]
bucket_url = "s3://your_bucket"

[destination.datalake.credentials]
aws_access_key_id = "your_aws_access_key_id"
aws_secret_access_key = "your_aws_secret_access_key"
endpoint_url = "your_s3_endpoint" # if needed
```
2. Using environment variables:
Learn how to do that [here](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/credentials/setup#environment-variables)

## 2. Running the pipeline
Use the provided pipeline.py script:

`uv run pipeline.py`

That will execute the script with `datalake` destination (object storage).

If you want to run the pipeline locally with duckdb output, use the `--local` flag:

`uv run pipeline.py --local`

Duckdb database will be saved in `outputs/imgw.db` by default.

## 3. Dagster
In case you want to try it out with dagster, you can run the dev webserver with uv:

`uv run --with=dagster-webserver dagster dev`

## 4. Docker
TODO


Repository initiated with [fpgmaas/cookiecutter-uv](https://github.com/fpgmaas/cookiecutter-uv).

Commit message:

remove `--freeze` flag from instructions

README.md, after:

# imgw pipeline

[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dp997/imgw-pipeline)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dp997/imgw-pipeline)
[![Build status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dp997/imgw-pipeline/main.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/dp997/imgw-pipeline/actions/workflows/main.yml?query=branch%3Amain)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/dp997/imgw-pipeline/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/dp997/imgw-pipeline)
[![Commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/dp997/imgw-pipeline)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/dp997/imgw-pipeline)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dp997/imgw-pipeline)](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dp997/imgw-pipeline)

## Prerequisites
Project is managed with uv, so you should probably [install](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/) it.

Clone the repository with git and go into project directory:
```
git clone https://github.com/dp997/imgw
cd imgw
```

Synchronize the environment:
```uv sync```
The command will create a new python virtual environment inside `.venv` directory.

## 1. Configuring the pipeline
The pipeline is managed with dlt (optionally dagster). The `.dlt` directory contains `config.toml` with some sane defaults for pipeline to run.
If you want to store pipeline results somewhere outside of local duckdb instance, you should configure dlt secrets:
1. In a `.dlt/secrets.toml` file:
```
[destination.datalake]
bucket_url = "s3://your_bucket"

[destination.datalake.credentials]
aws_access_key_id = "your_aws_access_key_id"
aws_secret_access_key = "your_aws_secret_access_key"
endpoint_url = "your_s3_endpoint" # if needed
```
2. Using environment variables:
Learn how to do that [here](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/credentials/setup#environment-variables)

## 2. Running the pipeline
Use the provided pipeline.py script:

`uv run pipeline.py`

That will execute the script with `datalake` destination (object storage).

If you want to run the pipeline locally with duckdb output, use the `--local` flag:

`uv run pipeline.py --local`

Duckdb database will be saved in `outputs/imgw.db` by default.

## 3. Dagster
In case you want to try it out with dagster, you can run the dev webserver with uv:

`uv run --with=dagster-webserver dagster dev`

## 4. Docker
TODO


Repository initiated with [fpgmaas/cookiecutter-uv](https://github.com/fpgmaas/cookiecutter-uv).
